feat(deposition): improve docs on raw reads and assembly annotation (#4006)
loculus-project/loculus: ena-submission/ENA_submission.md

]
```

## 4 Submitting annotated assemblies to ENA

ENA docs say they require pre-registration of a [locus_tag_prefix](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/faq/locus_tags.html) in order to submit annotated assemblies - however we have succeeded in submitted annotated embl files without these tags.

Given a nextclade dataset and a sequence, nextclade can be used to generate GFF3 files and/or tab-separated feature tables (tbl) files, these must still be converted into the required embl-annotation format.

```
nextclade run {sequence.fasta}  --output-all annotations --server {server} --output-annotation-tbl annotations.embl --dataset-name {dataset}
```

The nextclade.json that is produced also contains annotations - we are [working](https://github.com/loculus-project/loculus/issues/3739) on using this annotation object to add annotations to the .embl flat files we submit:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

> The nextclade.json that is produced also contains annotations - we are [working](https://github.com/loculus-project/loculus/issues/3739) on storing this JSON in Loculus and then converting the annotations to the required .embl annotation format upon deposition:

Author: ```suggestion
The nextclade.json that is produced also contains annotations - we are [working](https://github.com/loculus-project/loculus/issues/3739) on using this annotation object to add annotations to the .embl flat files we submit:
```

                  "locus_tag": [
                    "NS1"
                  ],
                  "codon_start": [
                    "1"
                  ],
                  "product": [
                    "nonstructural protein 1"
                  ],
                  "protein_id": [
                    "QPB74302.1"
                  ],
                  "Name": [
                    "NS1"
                  ],
                  "seq_index": [
                    "0"
                  ]
                },
                "compatIsGene": false,
                "color": null
              }
            ],
            "exceptions": [],
            "attributes": {
              "seq_index": [
                "0"
              ],
              "ID": [
                "Gene-0-NS1"
              ],
              "Name": [
                "NS1"
              ],
              "product": [
                "NS1"
              ]
            },
            "compatIsCds": true,
            "color": null,
            "gffSeqid": "LOC_0011LRU.1",
            "gffSource": "feature",
            "gffFeatureType": "CDS"
          },
          ...
        ]
      }
```

> I previously reformatted the .tbl file to produce the required .embl annotations (using the Bio.SeqFeatures class for this is quite useful). Alternatively, https://github.com/NBISweden/EMBLmyGFF3 will generate an embl file given a gff3 file, however it needs a gff3 file for the specific sequence that is being submitted. When used on the GFF file produced by nextclade it adds ERRORS and WARNINGS (to the resulting output embl file) due to the `region` and `seq_index` being unknown - these are not required so they could just be removed. However as we need to add additional `country` and `collection_date` qualifiers to our embl files and I do not believe the package has this functionality.

Author: ```suggestion
Another way to add annotations to the .embl flat file is to reformat the .tbl file produced by nextclade (using the python Bio.SeqFeatures class for this is quite useful). Alternatively, https://github.com/NBISweden/EMBLmyGFF3 will generate an .embl flat file given a sequence's gff3 file. However, when used on the GFF3 file produced by nextclade it adds ERRORS and WARNINGS (to the resulting output .embl flat file) making the files un-submittable without further processing. This is due to the gff3 files containing non-standard annotations (e.g. `region` and `seq_index`). A work around would be removing them from the GFF3 file before using the package. The package also does not give an option to add additional `country` and `collection_date` qualifiers to the .embl flat files which we typically add when submitting to ENA. So I decided against using it.
```

### Submission via webin-cli

1. Create a [manifest.tsv](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submit/reads/webin-cli.html#manifest-file) file. 

You can see the permitted values of all permitted fields by following the links below or running 
```
java -jar webin-cli.jar -context reads -fields
```

- STUDY: Study accession or unique name (alias)
- SAMPLE: Sample accession or unique name (alias)
- NAME: Unique experiment name
- PLATFORM: See [permitted values](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submit/reads/webin-cli.html#permitted-values-for-platform). Not needed if INSTRUMENT is provided. e.g. ILLUMINA
- INSTRUMENT: See [permitted values](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submit/reads/webin-cli.html#permitted-values-for-instrument) e.g. Illumina Genome Analyzer
- INSERT_SIZE: Insert size for paired reads
- LIBRARY_NAME: Library name (optional)
- LIBRARY_SOURCE: See [permitted values](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submit/reads/webin-cli.html#permitted-values-for-library-source) -> should always be `VIRAL RNA` for us

> - LIBRARY_SELECTION: See [permitted values](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submit/reads/webin-cli.html#permitted-values-for-library-selection) e.g. PCR

Author: can be set to `unspecified`

> - LIBRARY_STRATEGY: See [permitted values](https://ena-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submit/reads/webin-cli.html#permitted-values-for-library-strategy) e.g. WGS or WGA

Author: can also be set to `OTHER`
